# Ipython-Trading-Algorithm
Implementing basic trading algorithms
The function "TRADE" provides statistics and applies two trading strategies to a perticular stock using short and long run moving averages. The two strategies are as follow:
  
  1) Mean Reversion Strategy: If the short run price of the stock is higher then the long run price, the current price is too high and will likely fall. In such a scenario a     signal to sell will be generated by the function. Similarly if the short run moving average is lower then the long run moving average the price is to low and is likely to rise. In this scenario a signal to buy will be generated.
  
  2) Crossover Strategy: When the short run price of the stock rises above the long run price, the price is expected to rise further and the function produces a signal to buy.   Similarly when the short run price of the stock falls below the long run price, the price is expected to fall and a signal to sell is generated.

  3) Statisitcs: The function can also output relevant statisitcs for a perticular stock. The function provides three plots. The first plot shows the stock's adjusted closing price, short and long run moving averages. The second plot displays a histogram showing the distribution of daily percentage change in price. The final plot shows the volatility.

Function Input
The function requires the following inputs:

1) The variable "stk" stands for stock ticker. In order to apply the function to Apple stock the value of stk will be 'AAPL'. Similarly, for Microsoft or AMD use their respective ticker 'MSFT" and 'AMD'.

2) mtd stand for which method or strategy the function needs to apply. mtd can take three values 'Mean Reversion Strategy', 'Crossover Strategy' and 'Statistics'. The value of mtd implements the relevant trading strategy or computes the relevant statistics.

3) st_dte is the variable for start date. Input the start date in the format 'YYYY-MM-DD'.

4) end_dte is the variable for end date. Input the end date in the format 'YYYY-MM-DD'.

5) short_avg stands for time period to construct the short run moving average. short_avg equals an integer greater then 1.

6) long_avg stands for time period to construct the long run moving average. long_avg equals an integer greater then short_avg.

7) vol_tf corresponds to time period in computing the volatility. vol_tf is an integer greater than 1.

8) The out variable corresponds to the type of output the function needs to provide. out can take two values 'Data' and 'Plot'. If 'Data' is used the output will be the data set containing the close price, short and long run moving average, volatility and signal. The signal values 1 and -1 corresponds to buy and sell, respectively. 'Plot' results in the function giving a plot as an output showing the results from the relevant trading strategy or stock statistics depending on the method selected.

An example of the function appyling the Mean Reversion Strategy to Apple stock from January  1𝑠𝑡  2006 to January  1𝑠𝑡  2012 is as follow:

aapl=TRADE('AAPL','Mean Reversion Strategy','2006-01-01','2012-01-01',40,100,40,'Data')
